# Week 4 More on RSA

## Directory
## Table of Contents
- [Home](/README.md#table-of-contents)
- [Week 3 Modern Block Ciphers and a Start on RSA](/week3/README.md#directory)
- **&rarr;[Week 4 More on RSA](/week4/README.md#directory)**
- [Week 5 Elliptic Curve Based Cryptosystems and Crypto Hash Functions](/week5/README.md#directory)


## Live Session

$a\cdot{x}\equiv{(y-b)\mod{26}}$

Take any number you want and add the modulus to get the same number

If the number and the modulus are coprime, they have a modular multiplicative inverse...

## Stream Ciphers

Symmetric key encryption is always used for bulk data

### Stream cipher vs Block Cipher

bit goes in
key goes in

Stream ciphers encrypt and decrypt 1 bit at a time
Block ciphers encrypt and decrypt many bits at a time

Stream ciphers are always faster than block ciphers

**Stream ciphers**
> encrypt bits individually. This is achieved by adding a bit from a key stream to a plaintext bit. There are synchronous stream ciphers 

Each bit x_i is encrypted by adding a secret key stream bit s_i modulo 2

## Block Ciphers
**Block ciphers** 
> encrypt an entire block of plaintext bits at a time with the same key.

Stream ciphers are used in mobile cryptography.

Assembly to machine code is 1:1

*Definition 2.1.1* **stream cipher encryption and decryption**
> the plaintext, the ciphertext and the key stream consis of individual bits
> $x_i,y_i,s_i\in{0,1}$
> Encryption: $y_i=e_{s_i}(x_i)\equiv{x_i+s_i\mod{2}}$
> Decryption: $x_i=d_{s_i}(x_i)\equiv{y_i+s_i\mod{2}}$

modulo 2 addition is equivalent to the XOR operation

### The Key Stream

- it turns out that the generation of values s_i, which are called the *key stream*, is the central issue for security of stream ciphers

**The key stream inputs a bit, but the key is several bits**

### True Random Number Generators (TRNG)

- True random number generators TRNGs are characterized by the fact that their ouput cannot be reproduced.
- NOT GOOD FOR STREAM CIPHERS

### Pseudorandom Number Generators (PRNG)
- generate sequencence which are reproducible based on a **seed** value.
- many instance outside of crypt.
- not useful at all in crypto!

### Cryptographically Secure Pseudorandom Number Generators (CSPRNG)
- PRG fools a specific set of observers
- CSPRG fools all observers
- only apply to cryptography

### A perfect cipher
*Definition 2.2.1* **Unconditionally Security**
> Cannot be broken with infinite computation power

This is impossible. 

Where going for computationally secure

*Definition 2.2.2* **One-Time Pad (OTP)**
> A stream cipher for which
> 1) key stream is generated by a tru random number generator and
> 2) the key stream is only known to the legitimate communicating parties
> 3) every key stream bit s_i is used only once
> is called a one-time pad. The one-time pad is unconditionally secure


### Computational Security
*Definition 2.2.3* **Computational Secure**
> If the best know algorithm takes at least $t$ operations to break